why do we have political theory in
veganism at all isn't veganism such a
simple idea that any child can
understand it isn't veganism such a
simple idea that it doesn't need volumes
and volumes of academic discourse on the
political philosophy of how to implement
you know political theory can get you
into trouble but it also helps get you
out of trouble it helps avoid problems
before they even start I might take a
very simple very humble very consumer
centered definition of veganism as the
most practical way to talk about
veganism especially to outsiders in most
circumstances something like this the
central idea of veganism is if you
refuse to buy animal products you're
making the world a better place if we
can convince more and more people to
refuse to buy animal products then
collectively
in Mass we are making the world a better
place of course you can get into details
about in what way we're making the world
a better place in terms of ecology or
use of resources like water in terms of
reducing animal suffering etc etc we can
expand on this almost infinitely but
that's a very simple and very limited
idea it's very easy for people to
understand and it is implementable it's
very clear how you have put this into
practice in your own life now by
contrast right now right now 2017 I
would say the dominant idea of the ISM
in the academic discourse in terms of
the political theory of veganism is to
approach it from a wildly different
perspective is to approach veganism as
follows
there are people who say the fundamental
problem with modern Western civilization
is speciesism
you must understand speciesism as a form
of oppression
therefore veganism is a social justice
issue
and speciesism as they use the concept
entails that to treat an animal as less
than a person to treat an animal
something other than a nonhuman person
is discrimination parallel to treating
black people as inferior to white people
or Mongolian people as inferior to
Chinese people this is an argument that
relies on the inherent equality in some
sense of animals and people and that is
claiming that anyone who fails to
recognize and respect that equality is a
is a bigot is is equivalent to a racist
they are a species issed
now I do not think the concept of
speciesism is completely worthless I
actually think in some contacts in some
conversations it's meaningful and useful
one that's come up on this channel is
when you're challenging people why do
you think that a pig should be treated
so differently from a dog why do you
think that a bear should be treated so
differently from a dog when we're
challenging I think divisions we have
cultural distinctions we have between
different classes of animals I think it
can be useful to talk about speciesism
and really to talk about the kind of
cultural ideology that we attach to
humanity to the status of particular
species why is it that people assume you
know fish don't matter and cats do in
some contexts that can be meaningful but
approaching veganism in this way as a
matter of fact we're creating many
insoluble problems for ourselves
gary franciotti likewise he starts in
the species perspective and then he
tries to push very hard on a false
dichotomy that the whole world is only
separated into persons and inanimate
things objects persons and are therefore
we must recognize that animals are
non-human persons and therefore we must
give animals
a set of Rights not quite equal to human
rights but and all kinds of absurdities
ensue from this including really a very
thin snake skinned and hysterical
attitude towards anyone who doesn't
agree with you and if you've been in
veganism for a long time you may have
gotten out of touch with the fact that
the 99% of humanity the very concept of
speciesism is laughable it's ridiculous
it's hilarious it's insane it's actually
laugh-out-loud funny for a meat-eater if
someone is not familiar this is course
to hear a vegan claiming that because
they regard a rat or a cockroach or a
pigeon as inferior to a human being
they are in effect racist they are
species issed
against those animals okay and the
reality is vegans can preach this they
can make this the center of their or
ethical and political practice but
vegans do not actually practice it we do
not actually believe in it the vast
majority people living watching this
video right now the vast majority people
watching are living in a major city even
if you are vegan I challenge you to take
the time to talk to your apartment
building manager about the reality of
pest control where you live when I was
living in Victoria BC Canada I was
living in an apartment that had hollow
walls you know so the walls very common
Ken it's an apartment building but the
walls are hollow there's a little layer
of wood and this artificial facing
material it's a perfect home for rats
and cockroaches to live in the walls
when you have hollow walls like that in
Canada any animals that can move into
you the building will move in rats
cockroaches bedbugs currently I'm living
in a solid to concrete building very
different situation I remember thinking
I was just lucky and that it was just a
matter of time before that building had
rats cockroaches and bedbugs infesting
it and actually when I moved out my last
couple of days there you know when you
move out of an apartment you have to
meet up with the building manager a few
times he we were discussing these things
and he mentioned to me they had a pest
control expert
coming in every week they had someone
setting traps for mice and rats spraying
chemicals not just chemicals to kill
insects but to detect if you've got an
infection sorry if you've got an
infestation you know to detect the
presence of cockroaches and bedbugs in
that kind of thing they were paying a
regular fee to have a professional
company of exterminators come in like
clockwork on a regular basis and that's
why I never saw any of those animals the
reality is my rent money is going to
kill animals like rats the reality is
every time you buy bread you are paying
money for that wheat farmer to kill rats
in Canada rats and groundhogs many many
other animals okay in practice we do not
believe in equal rights for all animals
we do not believe in this particular
paradigm of speciesism and none of us
could live by this definition by this
political theory if we wanted to when I
lived in Taiwan yes pious vegan that I
am I personally can try to avoid killing
cockroaches Taiwan I have been told has
the world's greatest climate for
cockroaches cockroaches really
flourished there okay when a particular
cockroach comes into my house I can take
the time to take a porcelain cup and
trap the cockroach and put it outside
with the can do that yes and I can pat
myself on the back and say that I'm
morally superior to someone else who
doesn't think that time guess what when
I was in Taiwan every single day I
benefited from the fact that the city
government the local government was
going out and putting poison in the
storm drains a very to see this poison
was remarkable I think it had dry ice as
part of it it was crackling and emitting
fumes they would put really really
serious pesticides in the storm rooms
all over the city you know the
government is actively spraying and
killing cockroaches all the time so that
my house is not overrun with cockroaches
so the whole neighborhood is not overall
cover and as a vegan I'm benefiting from
that
okay bedbugs are the ultimate example
there's no way to negotiate if you are a
vegan and you have lived in an apartment
building with a bedbug infestation I'd
love to see you live up to this
principle okay it matters why would you
embrace a political theory a political
philosophy that first of all makes
vegans sound ridiculous to outsiders
there's no advantage in that second of
all makes vegans appear to be hypocrites
to their filth Feakins gives us a set of
principles we can't live by and thirdly
creates more problems than it solves
ultimately what is philosophy to me
philosophy is a problem-solving method
and then over time with the discipline
of philosophy of collecting together and
studying and examining those
problem-solving ethic methods
learning from the contrast and
comparison between problem-solving
methods ultimately there's no point
having political philosophy at all if
it's not going to solve some problem
okay and I do see tremendous
unbelievable blind spots in this
approach this speciesism first approach
where the first principle is anti
speciesism and then we approach veganism
okay wild bears in the forest are not
property wild bears are not going to be
liberated by this switch in focus from
regarding animals as property to
regarding animals as in some sense equal
it's irrelevant in this approach really
you can see it's based on the status of
domesticated house pets like dogs and
cats saying dogs and cats should be
elevated to have these other rights and
it neither applies in a coherent way to
the status of animals in the wild nor to
animals that we regard as vermin like
rats okay so on the level of rhetoric it
seems to me you're making tremendous
sacrifices of vegan by embracing this
model and what do you get what is the
benefit of this model the benefit
clearly is the use of this term social
justice I've heard Francey own a say
this I've seen other books other author
playing this game lately for some reason
some vegans including France and are
very much afraid anyone who does not
regard veganism as a social justice
movement whatever that means
it's a painfully vague phrase if you
don't regard it as a matter of social
justice then you'll merely be a reducer
terian you'll merely try to reduce
meliorate the situation with the the
slaughterhouse industry you won't try to
abolish it absolutely now I really don't
know to me that's an illogical and
incoherent leap of inference I also
think I mean I've been recently reading
this book probably the future I'll have
more discussion of this book and I'll
invite other youtubers to come on and
maybe discuss it with me the same way
with Maude vegan before we had a great
discussion of Garry Fran Sione's lettuce
book there's a new book 2016
motivational methods for vegan active
bag sorry pardon me
motivational methods for vegan advocacy
by casey taft PhD so interesting book
like most of the stuff some of law 2016
book you know contribution to the
literature on veganism in theory and in
practice as a social movement how to
convert new people to veganism when I
look at passage of this book that lean
so heavily on this word social justice I
often question a question myself and I
sort of question the author why not
write what you really mean why not write
look at a sentence that just throws in
this term social justice as an adjective
you know what what do you gain by saying
animal agriculture is a social justice
issue I think what you really mean is
animal agriculture is an injustice that
our whole society ought to care about
that that's really the meaning of this
sentence but social justice itself has
become a very strange abstract
catchphrase
and it's it's very strange for me to see
people on the one hand saying really
argument lengths that veganism must be a
social justice movement again Francie
only does that Casey Taff does that etc
etc if it's not a social justice
movement then we're gonna disintegrate
into merely being vegetarians or reduce
it Aryans to me that's completely
illogical and then also the idea that we
must form veganism in the image of a
social justice movement beasts have to
imitate a preconceived ideal a
preconceived bunch of assumptions about
how social justice movements work
because veganism supposed to be a social
justice movement this is the ultimate
self defeating political philosophy
right why I mean you look comparisons
are odious okay an allegory can easily
become a trap yes we can speak
allegorically about the ways in which
veganism may resemble struggles for
civil rights for african-americans and
his Jenna states we could talk about
that it's an allegory okay but we can
also talk about the ways in which
veganism is similar to efforts to get
labeling on cigarette packages health
reforms legal reforms related to trying
to abolish cigarettes we can talk about
I love this example how well-organized
and successful mothers against drunk
driving was you know movements whether
we can talk about the seat belt reforms
we can look at all kinds of examples of
well-organized highly successful social
movements that were not necessarily
social justice movements and we can
learn from all of those comparisons and
none of the comparisons is going to be
perfect okay
there's no point don't send me hate mail
giving me a list of all the reasons why
organizing vegans to advocate for
veganism is fundamentally different from
organizing people to try to prevent
drunk driving try to change your culture
of alcohol consumption it is different
in some ways but do you want to make a
list of how different veganism is from
the abolition of slavery in the American
Civil War do you do you think there's
going to be a vegan civil
or alright my main criteria here I
mentioned earlier how absurd and
ridiculous the species is first approach
is where speciesism is the main item in
your logical theoretical approach I have
mentioned at the beginning that
Outsiders regard that as ridiculous but
I do not think that's the most important
criterion I think if you have a really
well working philosophy if you've got a
political theory that really works and
you can put into practice that really
solves problems for you then maybe it's
okay if Outsiders think it's ridiculous
because over time Outsiders are gonna
see how it works in practice you're
gonna prove the viability of that
political theory for me fundamentally
the problem with this kind of approach
is that it is incoherent even within
veganism it's actually counterproductive
and self-defeating I mean that very
sincerely okay so I'm gonna read a
couple of passages here from Casey Taft
PhD motivational methods for vegan
advocacy I guess they can give a link
below this video if anyone else wants to
read that book again I think in the next
few weeks there's gonna be more
discussion that of that book on my
channel maybe I'll invite some other
youtubers onto to talk about it okay for
quote page 19 quote for every social
justice movement that has led to great
change those at the forefront were able
to change the way that we see certain
oppressed groups such as women people of
color non straight people trans people
and so on the same is needed for animal
advocacy and a shift towards veganism
hit pause really so logically here on
the level of political philosophy what
is he doing he's saying we must must
treats social justice movements already
a painfully vague you know category
really primarily talking with civil
rights are african-americans we must
treat that as the template we must treat
that as the pattern for veganism to
imitate or to aspire to okay why it's an
incredibly weak argument there is an
allegory there is a comparison we can
make between
animal rights and the abolition slave
yes but it's only one comparison other
people make the comparison to the
extermination of Jews by the Nazis in
the Holocaust it's a comparison I
understand why people make that
comparison often they're interested in
even the aesthetics of the gas chamber
because gas chambers are now being used
to kill chickens the aesthetics of the
actual you know equipment used for this
kind of mass slaughter it's a comparison
it's evocative do you think really there
are lessons we can learn from World War
two and how the Nazis were defeated that
we're gonna apply to the slaughterhouse
industry that we're gonna apply to
McDonald's no do you think do you
actually think we're gonna fight a civil
war to abolish speciesism in the same
way that I mean do you think there's
gonna be a civil war against McDonald's
there are so many obvious ways in which
we should have the maturity just say
yeah you know what this is one
comparison this is one interesting
question to ask but it's only one
comparison of the money there's no way
that this should be a mold for veganism
to pour itself into okay and again on a
psychological level you can say to
somebody you can say to somebody look
humanity had to learn that when you
regard a black person you should
basically regard them in the same way
you regard a white person there were
there are differences between black
people and white people but you know
what they're kind of trivial you have to
set them aside and relate to this black
person as your equal or the you have to
relate them in that same way you would
relate to a white person basically
that's that's that's a psychological
aspect of racial equality right okay so
we all understand the discourse how are
you gonna apply that to a rat how are
you gonna apply it to a cockroach how
are you gonna apply that to a bear in a
forest and why are we even [ __ ]
asking the question in that way
I I realized there are people who have
been inside the movements and inside the
academic discourse for so long that they
don't see why that's problematic or
counterproductive okay but but taking
the art starting from the position you
have to look into the eyes of a bear in
the forest and see him as your equal you
know but you have to overcome your
species is aversion to this bear or this
rat or this these bedbugs that are in
fest in your house really you really
think that's the most effective way to
approach even within to begin really um
the same is needed for animal advocacy
says and a shift toward veganism we will
never be able to shift the paradigm for
animals if we continue to go along with
the oppressive notion that we can
epically do harm to animals in
moderation okay well my approach is
completely different Casey okay Casey to
have to the author um I think that just
like war and peace ultimately the way
humans relate to animals relies on lines
being drawn on a map I think that
ultimately human beings draw lines in a
map and they say inside this area inside
this zone we are going to preserve the
forest and we are going to preserve
bears living in the wild in their
natural habitat and humans are not even
allowed to feed the Bears if we are not
allowed to domesticate the Bears we're
not allowed to have them in a circus
performing for us we're not allowed to
even give them food because that leads
to dependency etc okay but you know what
if the bear has crossed the line and
that happens it's completely inevitable
that some of the bears are gonna smell
human garbage or just out of curiosity
we're not going to have perfect barriers
once in a while bears leave the forest
and break into somebody's basement
happens all the time in Canada they
forced their way through the windows and
end up in somebody's basement okay and
you know what human being is gonna shoot
the Bears dead it would be better if
they can use a tranquilizer gun be
better if you can just tranquilize the
bear and return it to the force that
would be better
okay but Casey I actually do not believe
that bears have equal rights to human
beings I have sympathy for everyone
involved if I had to shoot a bear in my
own basement in Canada I'm sure I'd be
traumatized and horrified or if I call
the cops and the cops show up and shoot
the bear it's awful I'm not celebrating
it okay I'm not celebrating it as a
sport but if you start from this
perspective that all animals should be
treated as non-human persons with the
same rights as people because you're
hung up on this [ __ ] social justice
paradigm because you're hung up on this
species despaired on because you
approach this as if the problem with
Western civilization is the riddle of
the difference between objects and
persons that only persons have rights
you've created a political theory that
is worse than having no political theory
at all okay you're not solving problems
with this theory you're only creating
problems this is really self-defeating
and destructive for the movement and I
know you can't see it that way that's
why I'm making this video I know I know
you're only trying to help
I know you're only trying to make the
world a better place these are
fundamental assumptions built into your
book and built into many many people
right now in the abolitionist side of
veganism even this is built into the the
so called citizenship side abolitionists
and citizenship approach we need to
think about this from a different angle
okay um to examine whether we are
treating animal use as a social justice
issue all we need to do is to
hypothetically place an oppressed human
group in the place of non-human animals
okay pause really I come I understand
where he's going this most of you
already know where this really can we
really ask ourselves this bear do we
treat this bear the same way we would
treat an oppressed human being whether
the bear is in the forest or the bear
has come into the city and is starting
to cause trouble for people do we treat
rats
the same way as an oppressively do we
treat bedbugs and cockroaches no we
don't we're never going to okay not in
the city not in our homes not on the
farms where we raise fruit and
vegetables and wheat all of those forms
of farming kill animals and not just
insects I remember a video maybe two
years ago where durianrider more than
one year ago during Ryder was just
reflecting on how much he would love to
own and operate his own farm but we
always used the term immature fruit farm
I remember him using with us this is
back when during Ryder felt he had a lot
of money to burn I don't know if he
still feels that way and I remember
watch the video thinking during Ryder do
you have any idea what kind of work is
involved in running a farm and this is
specifically his fantasy was a fruit
farm in Thailand okay in Thailand on a
fruit farm you don't just kill rats
you don't just kill Gophers I don't
think I have Gophers you kill pigs you
kill monkeys okay you take a [ __ ]
rifle and you shoot monkeys that come
onto the farm to take the fruit I live
in the real world I do not live in an
imaginary playpen where we can pretend
that in any of these interactions we
treat animals equal to human beings we
don't and we're never going to my
approach is the wildlife management
approach I want to draw lines in a map
and say over there bears live and die on
their own terms
yes with some intervention from humans
you know if a plague breaks out if the
Bears are all going extinct for sure
there's some level park park wardens are
like this for a national park if there's
some disease that breaks out some level
of veterinary care there are some kinds
of intervention to prevent
overpopulation or you know species
extinction within Park sure there are
some role for humans overseeing wildlife
in a national park you know in a zone
fenced off too before the wilderness but
that's about it folks I neither see
animals as our equals and our partners
within this society
NORs are equals in in any of these in
these contexts and I'll tell you
something my model works because my
model solves more problems than it
causes I got an email a few days ago
asking me about yeah it's a live stream
we all do this I've got questions now
coming in about managing deer population
and so on great questions I got a
question a few days ago asking me about
backyard chickens and this was somebody
who approached veganism from instead
this not not my perspective I guess from
the common perspective and this person
really sincerely felt that my approach
the wildlife management approach fails
to address whether or not it's okay to
eat eggs from chickens raised in your
backyard in a coop but it's the world's
most comfortable chicken coop all this
this [ __ ] this animal welfare is
approach [ __ ] right and I was able
to write back and say look you obviously
haven't watched even one of my videos on
what the wildlife management approach to
veganism is and why I argue it okay not
only do I think it's immoral for you to
eat the chickens eggs that are raised in
your backyard I not only don't think
it's immoral for you to raise them in
captivity of any kind
I think it's immoral for you to feed the
chickens my philosophy can be summed up
with a sign we've all seen please do not
feed the Bears I do not want animals to
have a relationship of dependency on
human beings at all I reject the mess
dication of animals entirely okay
the Bears in the forest should try to
feed themselves and when they can't feed
themselves they should starve that's the
life of a bear in the wild period dogs
should not be our pets we should not
pretend that dogs are our friends dogs
should exist only in the wild where they
can feed themselves or starve and guess
what folks it's literally a dog-eat-dog
world if you know anything about how
dogs exist in the wild dogs do kill and
eat other dogs right and there's a line
of the map and I don't think the Bears
have the right to
and live in the city I don't think the
Bears have the right to come in and eat
the garbage out of your garbage can
obviously it's dangerous and the
practical reality is do you know any
philosophy of veganism that even
addresses the question of how do we
raise fruit or how do we farm wheat if
we actually believe in this [ __ ]
that we should treat the rats and the
Gophers as having rights equal to human
rights it's it's a pretty obvious flaw
okay people
on the level of political theory this is
not a tiny or subtle problem in this
approach okay my approach again is
simple and obvious you draw lines in a
map in one area animals have all the
rights in the world the forest the
National Park whatever you say and in
another area whether it's the city or a
farm basically we have a different set
of Rights a different set of principles
and we would never treat human beings
that way we would never draw lines in a
map and say okay over there is the First
Nations reserve where native Canadians
or Native Americans live and as long as
they stay on that reserve they have
human rights but if they cross the line
and come into white society then all of
a sudden it's different we would never
do that to human beings in Canada we
have a terrible history of doing exactly
that human beings right so there are
some comparisons so but I don't think we
can think our way out of this problem
via speciesism or via this idea that we
have to declare animals to be so-called
non-human persons it's ridiculous and
counterproductive okay I continue Casey
Taft quote and Casey Taft here right so
I've already questioned this
why is he framing this in terms of a
social justice issue what does that
phrasing win us why aren't we instead
making comparisons to the abolition of
cigarettes step-by-step including new
laws new laws but where you can smoke
where you can't new law pardon me new
laws about how the cigarettes are
packaged the labels limits on
advertising cigarettes can you imagine
so this is all [ __ ] this species of
[ __ ] look what a breakthrough would
if we had a law making it illegal to pay
money to advertise meat and dairy
products there would be an epoch-making
law many many Western countries have
those laws against advertising
cigarettes they restrict the right of
companies to advertise tobacco or
completely eliminate it right where you
can't have billboards up advertising
zeros because we know cigarettes are bad
there'll be huge huge advance if we said
look eggs and bacon are scientifically
proven to Terrill for health so no more
advertising with them make that illegal
a huge huge advance huge huge win for
veganism but has nothing to do with this
boy wouldn't have anything to do with
claiming pigs are non-human persons or
that kind of legal reform right so there
are comparisons to the cigarette smoking
struggle which is a long term struggle
the next 100 years we're not going to
see tobacco disappear but you know it's
a real it's a real political struggle
regulating cigarettes out of existence
step-by-step over the next 200 years
it's a struggle that has meaningful
comparisons to veganism Mothers Against
Drunk Driving I mentioned a million
times may be the most successful civil
society organization in the history
United States of America tremendous
political influence and again Mothers
Against Drunk Driving you think they're
a joke they're doing classroom
instruction sessions in high schools
across America thousands and thousands
of thousands of high schools have a
representative for Mothers Against Drunk
Driving coming in and giving them a
lecture do vegans have anything like
that you think it's a [ __ ]
comparison it's not the Civil War the
American Civil War is not the only
meaningful comparison here guys and
those are not social justice issues
cigarette-smoking
not a social justice issue not a human
rights issue drunk driving alcohol
change the culture of alcohol drinking
not a social justice issue not a human
rights issue and guys the biggest blind
spot of all here is just ecology itself
ok ecology is not a social justice issue
and on some level all of us know we
wouldn't even dispute veganism is an
ecological issue and vice-versa right
ecology defined in terms of the water in
terms of the air in terms of the forest
in terms of habitat conservation in
terms of the melting of the polar ice
caps none of those
none of them are social justice issues
so why take social justice as a
straightjacket that veganism has to fit
into doesn't make sense okay um so you
continue it's not gonna be too much more
of this
for example quote for example would we
ever promote only a reduction in racism
or a baby steps approach towards ending
racism rather than demanding a complete
end to racial - racist practices would
we encourage those who engage in
domestic violence to merely reduce their
physical violence towards their partners
or will be demand that society refuses
to not condone any intimate partner
violence look guys to me this is
complete [ __ ] written by someone who
has no experience in the real world of
political science or politics . . guess
what tolerance does matter guess what
most countries have made a transition
lasting 500 years about racism and if
you want to have a society that right in
1955 locked up every white american who
made a racist statement and put them in
jail than american society would have
disintegrated right in reality america
did go through babies deaths
i'm not i'm not lying i'm not glorifying
it but you know the american transition
from slavery to racial equality even in
the 20th century it was it was a long
series of baby steps and there had to be
tolerance on both sides there had to be
tolerance for maybe extreme
you know black liberation groups and
there had to be tolerance to the fact
that there were a lot of people's mean
old white grandparents making racist
statements and we all had to live in a
society together without having another
civil war without being in a constant
state of civil war cuz guess which side
guess which side ultimately would have
won if you talking about the you know
the uplifting of the oppressed and the
weak tolerance does matter even with an
example like you know domestic partner
violence as he says okay we have huge
problems in canada I'm sure this exists
in the US or some states in the US where
the police on paper of a zero-tolerance
policy towards wife beating or husband
beating domestic partner violence you
know we had this situation all the time
a couple comes home from the bar they're
in their apartment they're drunk and
they're yelling at each other and one of
their neighbors calls the cops when the
cops show up they beat the crap out of
both people they beat up the husband the
wife they put the husband in in
handcuffs and take him off to jail and
it has huge negative impacts on the
couple's lives and some of the wife is
saying he never even beat me this is
ridiculous
they were just yelling at each other and
the neighbors didn't want to hear it
I've heard lots of stories of that in
the States actually hate to tell you in
practice in terms of actually policing
and legislating how you handle something
like domestic partner boss real life is
not about making demands real life is
not just about demanding equality and
then assuming that demand will solve the
problem real life is full of these
terrible gray areas how do you actually
manage the transition from an intensely
racist society to a broadly speaking a
Galit aryan society how do you actually
manage on a human level and in terms of
legislation the protocol for what police
should do when someone phones them
because they can hear screaming - people
screaming at each other in the next
Department okay this is actually
laughable and I know people inside the
movement don't realize how laughable and
ignorant this is okay um with racism
give you an example
it was crucially important absolutely
crucial word and basically every Western
country in the world to have racial
equality laws when a bank considers an
application for a loan it was in the Rue
nots every distant past mid-1950s a
black person could not buy a house or
could not get money alone to them to
build their own house in the same way a
white person could crucial crucial
institutional change to try to bring
them but on the other hand the United
States of America they never had laws
that forced a Christian preacher in a
white only church to stop saying racist
things against black people they never
deprive that person of their freedom of
speech okay so it is complicated and he
says you cannot possibly solve these
problems through baby steps on the
contrary he's choose
examples of problems that are only
solved through baby steps ultimate self
defeating approach to veganism okay
[Music]
while individual advocates may not think
of themselves as speciesist he continues
Casey Taft they promote a species as
paradigm when they convey acceptance of
any non-human animal abuse that would
never under any circumstances be
considered acceptable if human animals
were those experiencing the injustice
okay so to me I guess that's a good
point to wrap up on it's just observed
it's just absurd
sometimes we shoot bears I mean
sometimes we shoot people - if you
really try to sit down and legislate
what rights do bears have when they're
in the forest what rights do bears have
when they cross the barrier and come
into the city what rights do bears have
when they come into a human home and in
the basement there is no way you could
start from or end with this standard
that we can never treat bears we can
never treat bears in a way we wouldn't
treat a person if it would be an
injustice to treat a person this way
therefore you can't treat a bear this
way and bears are pretty easy folks what
are you gonna do with the rats
what do you can do with the cockroaches
what are you gonna do with millions of
cows if just one factory farms shut down
and decided to liberate all its cows
what are you gonna do with those cows
domesticated cows as they exist on a
farm but they can't survive in the wild
what are you gonna do with those cows if
just one farm owner turns vegan and
liberates his cows and donates them
donates thousands of cows to an animal
shelter okay there are all kinds of
impossible to solve problems here and
meanwhile in the midst of all this I
think the majority of you vegans
watching this video you have pet cats
every day you're paying money to kill a
cow to put the cow's flesh in a [ __ ]
metal can so you can feed it to your cat
so would you do that with a human being
would you buy human meat to feed your
cat it's it's not a workable or useful
political theory it's just not so I come
back to this look
fundamentally veganism is a practice in
search of a political theory veganism is
a working method that lacks a political
philosophy and that is much much better
than being in the situation of having a
political philosophy that lacks any
method we all know what to do with
veganism we know how to take this method
and put it into practice and I think
that's because my first definition what
I said the start of this video is really
the true and more useful definition at
core at bottom the method or the the
conceit of veganism is if everyone
stopped paying for animal products the
world would be a better place would that
solve all of our problems
no but if everyone did what I do
everyday and just refuse to buy animal
products the world would be a better
place okay simple does that mean that
rats will have equal rights to human
beings no does that mean that we're
gonna abolish wheat farming because
wheat farming involves killing Gophers
and rats and mice no does it mean that
if a bear breaks into your house you
have to treat it the same way you would
a human know it doesn't have any of
those implications all right that's just
the core consumerist practice the method
we all agree to as vegans and we could
leave it at that